welcome to serious spoilers
today i will share a thriller movie from
2020 titled i'm thinking of ending
things
spoilers ahead
watch and enjoy a young woman confesses
in narration that she has been thinking
of ending things with her boyfriend jake
who she has not been dating terribly
long maybe seven weeks
very briefly she sees an elderly janitor
in a window who also thinks that he is
thinking of ending things
they are headed on a trip together to
visit his parents for the first time
they leave a town and begin driving into
lots and lots of farmland
she admits that maybe it's a bad idea to
go meet his family when she doesn't
think the relationship is going anywhere
but she is curious where he comes from
on the drive jake mentions some poems he
loves that are written to a woman named
lucy like me the young woman notes
she then gets a phone call that is from
a lucy which she declines
the young woman notes a brand new swing
set in front of an abandoned house which
she finds strange
there is a lot of snow which worries the
young woman as she has a big scientific
paper to write the next day
interspersed with all of this are scenes
of the janitor getting up and doing his
daily routine going to work at a high
school
jake turns the radio to a station
playing the musical oklahoma and jake
says he knows a lot of musicals and that
he sees the productions every year this
is intercut with the janitor watching
the kids at the high school rehearsing
their musical almost as if jake is the
janitor and is describing his life
experience
the young woman is now apparently a poet
not a scientist and jake asks her to
recite a poem which she does
they arrive at jake's parents home where
his mother and father live
despite the intense snow jake insists on
giving the young woman a tour of the
farm
on the grounds they find the lambs dead
and frozen solid and the pen where all
the pigs lived before they had to be put
down after they had been eaten alive by
maggots the young woman at various times
seems to say she lived in a farmhouse
like jake's and at others in an
apartment
the basement door is locked and has
scratches all over it which jake says is
from their dog jimmy
jake's parents meet the young woman and
call her louisa
at dinner they talk about the young
woman being a painter not a poet she
gets missed calls from louisa and shows
the parents pictures of her work
the parents then ask her about her work
in signs not painting
jake ends up snapping violently at his
mother the mother asks how they met and
the young woman tells the story of how
they met at a trivia night but the story
has many inconsistencies after dinner
the young woman sees a photo of young
her that she then sees as young jake
jake's mother explains she has tinnitus
hearing a buzzing noise in her ear
the young woman gets a call from yvonne
which she answers and hears a male voice
saying he has one question to answer
jake's parents begin to suddenly seem
older and jake mentions that the young
woman lucia studies gerontology or aging
when previously the science she had said
she worked on was physics
the young woman goes to jake's bedroom
and finds a book where she reads from it
the poem she recited earlier
also in the bedroom is a book on film
criticism
jake's father comes and finds her and
he's now elderly she says she needs to
leave because of the snow and goes
downstairs and finds jake feeding his
totally elderly mother the young woman
thinks she should end things
jay tells his father that the young
woman is a waitress and they met while
she was serving him in a scene
reminiscent of a movie we saw the
janitor watching earlier
jake's mother then starts cleaning now a
younger woman
she asks the young woman to do some
laundry in the basement so she goes down
despite jake's protests in the laundry
she finds only janitor uniforms
she also sees her paintings hanging that
she showed before thereby a real artist
not her louisa calls and she answers the
voice speaks and again asks for the
answer
when she returns upstairs jake's mother
is on her deathbed elderly
jake decides it's time for them to leave
jake's father now younger says bye
jake and the young woman drive away
he describes the evening and many of the
things he says happen she has no memory
of happening in the car they discuss a
film and a woman begins speaking a
literal film review
in the middle of a snowstorm they decide
to stop for ice cream
jake begins talking about the kids he
sees at the school every day as they
stop at the ice cream store
the high school girl employees laugh at
jake except for one with a rash that the
young woman seems to recognize
the girl with the rash likes the young
woman and tells her she's scared and is
scared for her as well
in the car they suddenly feel it's too
cold for the ice cream
jake stops to dump the ice cream at his
old high school despite the young
woman's protestations
the two get into a frustrated argument
but then begin making out in the car
jake sends the janitor watching them
freaks out and gets out of the car as
the young woman screams at him not too
frustrated she leaves the car and
follows him and in the trash outside
sees hundreds of ice cream cups
inside the school she gets lost and is
found by the janitor who she asks for
help and tells that when she met jakey
was a creep and she didn't want his
attention and that was the extent of
their interaction
he tells her she's safe and she hugs him
she finds jake and two dancers act as
them and perform a ballet together
at the ballet jake and ballet woman are
about to be married a ballet janitor
interrupts and steals the ballet woman
away
the ballet jake fights the ballet
janitor and is stabbed and dies
the janitor cleans it up and goes to his
car where he begins to have memories oh
jake and his parents
he then sees an animated pig being eaten
by maggots who beckons him to follow him
the janitor gets out of his car naked
and follows the pig
in an auditorium jake now elderly
accepts an award
his parents and the young woman also
elderly watch as he gives a speech
he then gives a performance of a song
from oklahoma to a standing ovation
the next morning the janitor's car sits
outside the school buried in snow
the implication is that the janitor was
jake all grown up and he never had any
girlfriend it was just a fantasy he
concocted of what he wished he could
have had as he approached the end of his
life
what did you think of the movie
i want to hear your comments below
thanks everyone for watching
don't forget to subscribe
until the next spoiler